Moral Stories For Kids
AHMED H. SHERIFF - XKP

Published: 2013
Categorie(s): Non-Fiction, Education and Study aids, Fiction,
Short Stories, Religion, Islam, Health & fitness, Daily Living,
Childhood
Tag(s): islam "kids stories" "short stories" xkp "islamic
ebooks" "islamic stories" "shia ebooks" "shia ipad" "elephant
and ant" khojas shias "islamic mobility" islamicmobility.com

1

Chapter

1

PREFACE
It is a recognized fact that relating of stories is one of the
best venues ofmaking think and reform their ideas. And those
true stories of importantevents in the past afford opportunities
to readers not only to reform their waysof thinking but also uplift their moral standards.
The Holy Qur'an tells us about the prophets who were asked
to relate to theirpeople stories of past events (ref: 7:176) so
that they may think. Parables arealso mentioned in the Holy
Book so as to warn people against pitfalls in theirways of life as
weel as to provide examples of virtue and vice. The aim hasbeen to bid people to do good and forbid them from doing bad.
I have endeavoured in this booklet to relate stories extracted
from the pasthistory, adding explanatory notes and relevant
quatations form the HolyQur'an and ahadith. It is hoped that
this will serve to acquaint readers to thetrue Islamic values as
well as in uplifting moral standards where needed. It isalso
aimed at helping lecturers in schools and in public gatherings.
Readers are requested to accord due respect to this booklet
in view of theHoly quatations contained in therein. Also to help
us in circulating it as as tospread the benefit as widely as
possible.
Ahmed H. SheriffP
.O.box83856
Mombasa
Kenya

2

Chapter

2

THE KHOJAS WHO DISCOVERED THE
TRUTH
Over five hundred years ago, some people in India and Iran
held a strangebelief about God. They believed that God entered
into everything in theUniverse and that everything has the essence of God. The believers of thisoriginally were Hindus as
well as a sect of Muslims.
Among the leaders of this belief were Peer Sadruddeen, an
ancestor of theAga Khans in Iran as well as one Hindu known
as Sahadeva Joshi. With thisbelief, they made up a religion
which they labelled as Sat Panth meaningRight Path. The followers of this new path came to be known as Khojas whichis
said to be a Sindhi word derived from the word "KHOJ" meaning to search.Perhaps it meant that the Khojas are those
people who originally made deepsearch to find a religious path.
It is also said that the word KHOJ A is derivedfrom the word
Khwaja meaning a man of distinction a title awarded by
thePeer to the newly converts to the Sat Panth.
The creed of this new religion is based on incarnation of God
i.e. God enteredinto some human beings, as believed by Hindus. To nine incarnations ofHindu God Vishnu, they added
Hazrat Ali (A.S.) as the tenth incarnation. Theybelieved in him
as God as did Alawites — the Nusairies in Syria. Theyproclaimed themselves Shias as well, meaning the followers of
Hazrat Ali(A.S.) and his family.
It is mentioned that a Persian mystic by name Ali Itahi had
come to Kutch inIndia. He took with him some eager Khojas to

3

Iran and introduced them to theancestors of the Agha Khans. It
is thought that these firm believers in the newreligion and the
close followers of Peer Sadruddeen came to be known asBawas. After the death of the Peer, they became the guardians
of the religionsof the Khojas. It is these Bawas who preached
that the Agha Khans wereincarnation of God and included this
belief in the GINANS - the prayer bookread usually in Jamat
Khanas. The Bawas had considerable influence overthe Khojas
as they also controlled the various ceremonies concerningmarriage and death, etc.
The Khoja faithful who took their lessons from theBawas
came to be known as Bhagats.The Khojas were mainly a trading community resident in Bombay, Karachi as well as lesser
numbers in towns and villages of Kutch and Kathiawar in India.Some of them migrated to Zanzibar and other East African
towns during theyears 1850 — 1900 to expand their business.
The Khojas in those days wererather ignorant and simple
people. They became influenced by social traditions of the Hindus, some of these traditions are still to be seen in marriage
ceremonies although many have disappeared with the times.
Despite being involved and surrounded by peculiar and
unlslamic beliefs andtraditions,, historical records show us that
the Khojas were deeply devotedtowards Imam Husain (A.S.).
They would spend large sums to commemoratethe martyrdom
of the Imam. Those who could afford would regularly travel
toKarbala and other Holy places to pay their homage at the
shrines of the Imams.
Sometime during 1860 - 70 A.D., a Shiite Muslim from
Madras, India, by nameof Mulla Qader Husain is said to have
gone to Karbala on pilgrimage as wellas to stay there for the
purpose of acquiring more knowledge in Shiism. Whilethere by
chance he came into contact with some prominent Khoja
Zuwwars -pilgrims from Zanzibar as well as Bombay. Among
them wereNurmohamedbhai, Mukhi Hashambhai Dossa and
Dewji Jamal. On their visitto him, Mulla Qader would teach
them the recitation of Holy Qura'n as well asIslamic rules
about cleanliness, prayers, etc.

4

Mulla Qader once described to them the merits of Hazrat Ali
(A.S.). SuddenlyNurmohamedbhai said “We Khojas believe that
Ali (A.S.) is God” On hearingthis, the Mulla was greatly astonished. On further discussion, he learnt that“Khojas also believed that Ali was the tenth incarnation of God and the
AgaKhan the forty-sixth incarnation of Aly or God.
”Obviously this belief is in absolute contradiction to the basic
principles ofIslamic belief in Tawheed — the Oneness of God.
Belief in any form of humanrelationship with God such as entering of God into human body is consideredas SHIRK — polytheism. The pure belief in the absolute Unity of Allah is
thefoundation of Islam and one who contradicts it cannot be
called a Muslim.
“Surely Allah does not forgive that anything should be associated with Him,and He forgives what is besides this to whom He
pleases; and whoeverassociates anything with Allah, he indeed
strays off into a remote error.”(14:116)
Thus Mulla Qader became deeply concerned about the ignorance of theKhojas and did his best to correct their beliefs. He
took them to the MujtahidSheikh Zainul Abedeen and reported
their plight. The Mulla was invited byDewji Jamal to accompany him to Bombay and Zanzibar so as to impart theknowledge of true Islam to the Khojas but he was not willing to
leave Kerbala.Finally at the insistence of the Mujtahid Sheikh
Zainul Abedeen he agreed andleft for Bombay where he first
stayed with Dewjibhai.
In Bombay, Mulla Qader started a Madrassa in which he
taught the rules andtenets of true Islam according to Shia Ithnasheri beliefs. Gradually he also leda congregational prayer
which was first attended by 15/20 people laterexpanding to 50
and more persons. This had to be done secretly inside ahouse
in order to safeguard the lives of the faithful who had separated fromthe main stream of Agha Khani sect of Ismaili Khojas.

5

On separation thus of the Khoja community into two different
sects of the Ismailis as followers of Agha Khan and Ithnasheris
as followers of TwelveImams, there were repeated incidents of
trouble between the two sects. TheIthnasheris were boycotted
in matters of business, social contacts, burial, etc.
So harsh was the friction between the two that at times criminals were hired tostab the converts and murders took place.
But so firm and staunch were those handful in their faith that
they could not bedrawn away from the path of truth they had
discovered. Their courage isindeed worth appreciating and taking lesson from.
Today the Khoja Shia Ithnasheries numbering more than
100,000 areprosperously scattered throughout the world in India, Pakistan, East Africa,Madagascar as well as Europe, USA,
Canada. They not only maintain theirIslamic traditions but also
contribute their time, energy and money for thepropagation of
truth.

6

Chapter

3

SHADDAD'S PARADISE ON EARTH
'Aad' was a descendent of Prophet Noah. Thousands of years
ago, his peoplehad lived in the deserts of “AL-AHQAF” around
Oman and Hadhramut in South Arabia. They were strongly
built and very tall. They believed in no Godbut worshipped
idols.
Prophet 'HUD' was sent by Allah to preach and guide them
on the right path.He advised them to worship one God as
taught by Islam but they paid noheed. Allah punished them by
stopping rain and drought over took them foryears. Then some
people went to Prophet 'Hud' begging him to pray to Allahfor
the rains.The Prophet prayed and instructed them to return to
theirvillages. There after it rained and people prospered. But
never did they amendtheir conduct nor abandon their faith in
idol-worship. Al last they weredestroyed by punishement from
Allah.
When 'Aad' died, he left behind two sons Shaddad and
Shadeed. After sometime Shadeed also died and Shaddad became the ruler of his kingdom. He had appointed several governors in the areas over which he ruled. He grewso arrogant
that he even claimed to be God and compelled his people toworship him.
Allah sent Prophet 'Hud' to approach 'Shaddad' advising him
to correct hiswrong thinking and conduct. In response, he once
asked the Prophet whatreward he could expect if he were to
put his faith in Allah and worship OneGod. He was told that he
would have a place in paradise. Shaddad inquiredwhat sort of

7

place it was. The Prophet described it as a blissful place
wherethe righteous and true believers in Allah would after
death enjoy the best ofevery thing. 'Shaddad' responded saying
it was nothing since he could alsobuild similar place or even a
better one on earth.
He then resolved to build a huge and beautiful paradise of
his own on earth.He sent someone to Zohak Tazi - who ruled
Iran with request to purchase allavailable quantity of gold and
silver. He also sent people around to otherplaces and acquired
large quantities of valuable items including musk andamber
etc.He then gathered all his experts and architects and gave
theminstructions to construct a magnificient 'paradise' on
earth.
A place with good climate and scenery somewhere in south
Arabia wasselected. High palaces and towers with walls inlaid
with gold and silver wereconstructed. Beautiful pearls and
emaralds were spread on floors instead ofsand. Trees made of
gold with branches hanging with musks and amber wereput up
in plush gardens. Everytime the wind blew, the sweet scent OT
theirperfume would spread around. Pretty women were accommodated there tobeautify the dream setting. All valuable
metals and materials were suppliedand it took some three hundred years to complete it.
In those very olden days, people used to live very long.
Prophet Noah hadlived for 900 years. Similary Shaddad was informed that he would live aboutthat long. So he was extremely
anxious to enter and live in his lavish man made paradise before his death.
He gave orders to all people to proceed to the walls of
dazzling city of highand magnificient pillars described in the
holy Quran as IRAM ZATIL IMAD.Then he himself came out of
his residence in Hadramont with his large armyfor opening ceremony. As he neared the paradise of his imagination, suddenlyhe saw a deer with trunk and legs of gold and silver. He
gave chase tocapture it but in so doing he got separated from

8

his army. Now alone,unexpectedly he was faced with a frightful
horseman who in raised voice said:
“Oh Shaddad! You imagined that you will be saved from
death and live forever after entering this man-made paradise
on earth.”
Shaddad on hearing this trembled and inquired who he
was.“I am MALAKOL MAUT” - (the angel of death) came the
reply.
“What do you want and why are you obstructing me?” asked
Shaddad.
“I have come to take away your soul”, he replied.
Shaddad pleaded for sometime at least to be able to enter his
paradise butthe angel of death refused saying he had no permission from Allah to do so.He then fell from his horseback and
his soul instantly departed from his body.His army heard a
deafening and frightening sound from the sky and they
alsoperished on the spot. None of them could fulfil their ardent
desire of enteringthe fictitous paradise. The whole decorated
structure crumbled and got buriedunder the Arabian sands.
What a splendid example of the consequence of one who
thought he couldchallenge the Might of Allah, who had become
arrogant as a result of thisenormous wealth.What a tragedy
that he could not even step into his manmade paradise.
The Holy Quran has truly described such people in these
words:
“Nay! man is most surely inordinate,Because he sees himself
free from want.” (96: 6-7)

9

Chapter

4

KA'ABA AGAINST THE MIGHT OF
ELEPHANTS
During the sixth century around 570 A.D., before the advent
of Islam, the partof Arabia known as Yemen was under the rule
of the Abyssinian Christianswho had driven away the Jewish
Himyar rulers. The Abyssinian viceroy inYemen was Abraha
Ashram. He was determined to build great church inSan'aa,
present capital of Yemen, so as to make it a leading centre ofcommerce and place of pilgrimage for the Christian world. He
was convincedthat this dream could only be realized if he could
first destroy Mecca whichwas then a huge centre of commerce
and pilgrimage.
Intoxicated with power and fired by religious fanaticism,
Abraha finally madehis vicious plans. Accompanied by a big
herd of elephants and other animals,he led an expedition and
marched to destroy the Holy Ka'aba in Mecca. The Arabs in
those days hardly had any opportunity to see an elephant in
theirlives. Hence the army of Abraha is described in history as
'ASHABUL FEEL'i.e. the army with elephants.Abraha camped
his army on the outskirts of Mecca preparing to attack and destroy the holy Ka'aba. During the course of preparation, his
army stole some 700 camels belonging to Abdul Muttalib - the
grandfather of the HolyProphet Muhammad (S.A.W) The
camels were grazing in the open fieldsoutside the city.
Abraha sent a message to Abdul Muttalib who was thesupreme chief of Mecca, informing him his intention of destroying the HolyKa'aba. Abdul Muttalib replied that he would meet
Abraha in person and talkto him. When he approached the

10

invading army's camp, he was receivedrespectfully and given
an honourable seat near Abraha. As the two mentalked, Abdul
Muttalib said that he had come to complain about Abraha's armystealing his camels. Abraha answered, “I have come to conquer Mecca, yourplace of worship, and you worry about your
camels?” Abdul Muttalib repiied, “Iam the owner and responsible for the camels so I have come for them. TheKa'aba belongs
to God and it is the concern of the owner of that housewhether
to save it or not.” Abraha, amazed by the reply, returned Abdul.Muttalib's camels to him but was determined to attack the
city. Abdul Muttalibadvised his people to move into the hills for
safety.As Abraha entered the city a huge flock of tiny birds,
like a patch of cloudappeared in the sky. Each bird had a small
pebble in its tiny beak and droppedit on the invading soldiers.
The stones fell exactly on the men and they wereinstantly
killed and fell prone on the ground. Abraha was spared but one
birdflew above him. The king asked him what kind of birds had
acted somiraculously.
Abraha raised his eyes to the sky and saw the bird and
pointedout it to the king; the bird dropped the stone and
Abraha was instantly killed.After the miraculous event,
Abraha's army was found lying on the ground asbits of some
withered and crunched grass rendered useless for any
purpose.
Is this event not a clear miracle proving the sanctity of the
Ka'aba and thepeople who were truly attached to it such as Abdul Muttalib and the people ofhis house? Had he not shown his
utmost confidence in Allah as the realprotector of the Holy
Shrine and guided his people to safety, they would have perhaps bowed down to the might and pomp of Abraha and made
a truce with him. Consequently the history of Mecca and the
holy shrine as well as theglory of Islam would have been
different.
Another important lesson to draw from this event for men of
all ages is that aman intoxicated with power can prepare
armies and armaments against God'sholy plan, but such a

11

man's action will be his own downfall, he cannot prevailagainst
God.
The Holy Qura'n has in eloquent words described this incident as follows:
“Have you not considered how your Lord dealt with the companions of theelephant?Did He not cause their war to end in
confusion,And send down (to prey) upon them birds in
flocks,Casting against them stones of baked clay,So He
rendered them like straw eaten up” (105: 1-5)

12

Chapter

5

LESSONS FROM THE LIFE OF AN ANT
Prophet Sulayman once was sitting on the bank of a lake
deeply engrossed inthe beauties of nature around and appreciating the various forms of Allah'screation on earth.
Suddenly the Prophet's attention was drawn towards an ant
creeping forwardwith a grain of wheat in its mouth. As it
reached near the water, a tortoise came out, opened its mouth
and the ant crept into it. The tortoise closing its mouth disappeared under the water. After a while, the tortoise again
sprungout of the water and standing on the bank opened its
mouth and the ant cameout. But this time it had no grain of
wheat in its mouth. The Prophet became anxious to know what
had been happening under water. On inquiring, the ant explained that at the bottom of the lake, there was a stone and
under neath it there was another ant who was blind. Allah had
created it there and becauseof blindness, it could not move
out. I have been appointed by Allah to provideits daily sustenance with the assistance of the tortoise. Hence I do performthis duty everyday.
Prophet Sulayman in response to his special prayer to Allah
was granted kingdom and was given power over the forces of
nature, over the Jinns and devils and the birds and other living
creatures. He was also endowed withknowledge of their language hence his ability to speak to the ant.
Let us ponder over one thing. If a tiny creature like an ant
living under a stoneat the bottom of a sea is not denied its

13

sustenance, why should man - thenoblest of all creatures ever
suspect loss of his sustenance from AlmightyAllah.
Prophet Sulayman's subjects were of various types and they
lived peacefullyand co-operatively by his discipline, justice and
good government. Jinns, menand the birds gathered in groups
before him. On their long march out oncethey came to a lowly
valley of ants. This valley contained huge deposits of in valuable metals like gold, silver and precious stones. This precious
placewas guarded by Allah with extraordinary kinds and sizes
of ants. On accountof this, none could approach the place on
foot nor mounted.
When the chief of the ants saw the pomp and the glory of the
huge army of Sulayman approaching towards it in the air, it
sounded the caution to all of itskind in the valley to get into
their holes lest they get trampled down andcrushed.
Prophet Sulayman smiled at the precaution taken by the ants
and ordered hiscompanions to wait until the ants went into
their holes and to be careful not tocause any harm to the ants
when passing through. He prayed to Allah tomake him grateful
for His favours and to do good deeds that please Him andto admit him among His righteous servants. Addressing the chief of
the ants,the Prophet is reported to have said:“How could my
people hurt you and your like as they are floating in the air
anddon't you know that I am the apostle of Allah and would
never act unfairly?”
The Chief of the ants replied:“Oh apostle of Allah! My cautioning my flock was not for fear of hurt but to prevent them
getting astray and forgetting the glory of Allah after seeing the
glory of your army or your pomp and glamour and be tempted
by them.”
That even the humblest creatures of Allah like the ant is endowed with the necessary wisdom to live and protect its life is
apparent from this. Besides one should not be over taken by
the glory of the worldly pomp of the rulers andkings as to forget the glory of the creator Allah that is what the ant teaches

14

us.On the other hand the prayer of Prophet Sulayman indicates
his humility before Almighty Allah who had bestowed upon him
control over the forces ofnature. That one should utilize God's
bounties for righteousness and for good to others is also the
lesson we derive. Despite all his possessions and gloryas the
king ruling over a vast empire and having control over various
creatures, Prophet Sulayman used to fast the whole day, weave
baskets and sell them. From the return of his own labour, he
used to purchase loaves and eat them sitting along with the
poor.
In one of his sermons in Nahjul Balagha, Imam Ali (A.S.) exhorts people toponder over the power of Allah's creation and
citing example of the creation ofan ant he says:
“Had they pondered over the greatness of His power and the
vastness of His bounty they would have returned to the right
path and feared the punishmentof the Fire; but hearts are sick
and eyes are impure. Do they not see the small things He has
created, how He strengthened their system and opened for
them hearing and sight and made for them bones and skins?
Look at the ant with its small body and delicate form. It can
hardly be seen in the corner of theeye, nor by the perception of
the imagination - how it moves on the earth and leaps at its
livelihood. It carries the grain to its hole and deposits it in its
placeof stay. It collects during the summer for its winter, and
during strength for theperiod of its weakness. Its livelihood is
guaranteed, and it is fed according to fitness. Allah, the Kind,
does not forget it and (Allah the Giver) does not deprive it,
even though it may be in dry stone or fixed rocks.
If you have thought about its digestive tracts in its high and
low parts, the carapace of its belly, and its eyes and its ears in
its head you would be amazed at its creation and you would
feel difficulty in describing it. Exalted isHe who made it stand
on its legs and erected it on its pillars (of limbs). Noother originator took part with Him in its origination and no one having
power assisted Him in its creation. If you tread on the paths of
your imagination and reach its extremity it will not lead you
anywhere except that the Originator ofthe ant is the same as

15

He who is the Originator of the date-palm, because everything
has (the same) delicacy and detail, and every living being has
little difference.”

16

Chapter

6

GHULAMHUSEIN AND THE GAME OF
CHANCE
Ghulamhusein was a popular social figure and a keen host of
guests comingto him from distant lands. He lived in Moshi, a
beautiful small town at the footof Mt. Kilimanjaro in Tanzania.
He was generous and hospitable to one andall. One of his hobbies during leisure hours particularly on Saturdays and
Sundays was to play the game of cards with his friends. For
hours they used to get together where they enjoyed the game.
It was not with the aim of gambling but rather just for pleasure
and pass time.
Once in the midst of a lively game of cards, his servant came
to inform himthat a guest of his was seriously ill at the guest
house and needed his immediate attention. He sent the servant
back saying he would come soon.But he was so much engrossed in the game of cards that he did not feelinclined to
withdraw from it. So he continued to play with keen interest.
After a while, his servant came again to report that the condition of the guestwas deteriorating and needed his urgent attention as there was no one else toattend. But Ghulamhusein
was so deeply engrossed in the game that he didnot want to be
disturbed. As such, again he sent the servant back promisingto
come soon.
By the time he could be free from the very mind-captivating
game of cards,the servant came for the third time. But this
time he reported that the guest of.his — a poor traveller from
distant lands — had already died. This news gavea shock of his

17

life to Ghulamhusein. It convinced him of the evil and harmfuleffect of such an indoor game. There and there he vowed
never to indulge himself in such a game.
Is this not an eye-opening example of an intoxicating and
mentally distractinggame of cards, commonly played today
either as a pass-time or for gamblingpurposes? Perhaps it also
explains the philosophy behind absolute Islamic forbidance to
play or watch such a game, even without the chance of
gainingor losing money.It is meant to be a prevention rather
than cure lest man is one day tempted to use the game for
gambling purposes.
But why do people become interested in such games of
chance, be it cards,billiard ball or chess at casinos and
gambling dens? A number of reasonscould be put forward for
this.
A mentally active young man happens to look for a time-pass,
away from hisusual home or office environment, and, he is
misled to believe that a casino ora billiard club is the best
place for this. Or it is possible that he is tempted by afriend for
his company to play a game. But more than that, it is the greed
and temptation of an easy and quick chance of making money
by gambling. Again he is misled to believe that he is lagging
behind whilst his friend and relativesmint millions of easy
money in the gambling dens.
A gambler often spends hours at the gambling dens at the expense of hisvaluable time for his other moral and religious duties towards his God and family. Should he lose in one game of
chance, he is tempted to play again andagain till he recoveres
his loss. Should he win and make some money, he isagain
tempted to play in order to double and treble his day's easy
earningfrom the game of chance.
Thus, the mind of a gambler becomes currupt and his aim of
life revolvesround money. His goal of life ultimately is to mint
money, more and more. Hismind is so much distracted that he
is no more able to concentrate in hisnormal job or studies. In

18

the temptation of making more or easy money, hisheart is all
the time drawn and attached to the gambling table.
And when the tide turns against him and he incurs losses
after losses in thegambling business, the time comes when he
is obliged to dispose off hispersonal belongings to pay off the
debts. The family life at home becomes disrupted as a result
and he is then detested and looked down upon by thesociety
and his own family members.
Islam which has come as a total code of life for man, has condemned and forbidden every game of chance. The following ayats of the holy Qura'n are a good guidance.
“They ask you about intoxicants and games of chance. Say:
In both of themthere is a great sin and means of profit for men,
and their sin is greater thantheir profit. And they ask you as to
what they should spend. Say: What youcan spare. Thus does Allah make clear to you the communications, that youmay ponder” (2:219)
Ithm as used in the Qura'n is interpreted as that sinful condition in the humanintellect and soul whereby he is distracted
and kept away from reaching actsof goodness and perfection.
Therefore, what it means is that drinks and gambling — two of
the major sins in Islam — as the source of great harm tohuman
body and soul.
“The Shaitan only desires to cause enmity and hatred to
spring in your midst by means of intoxicants and games of
chance, and to keep you off from ther emembrance of Allah
and from prayer. Will you then desist?” (5:91)
It is quite evident from the above verses of Holy Qura'n that
the enmity and hatred in addition to distraction from the rememberance of Allah and prayers results from gambling and
drinking.
The Holy Prophet Muhammad (s.a.w.) and his progency have
stronglycondemned the games of chance.

19

Imam Radha (a.s.) has said:“Allah has described gambling as
a filthy and impure act of Satan and haswarned people to keep
away from it”
Can a wise man and a true Muslim ever think of going near
to Satanic gamesof chance and take the risk of ruining his life?
Certainly not!!

20

Chapter

7

WHERE MUSIC LEADS TO
Alamgheer was one of the past Moghul kings in India. It is
said he was adevout muslim and staunch upholder of Islamic
tenets. He banned all luxuryitems in his kingdom including the
listening to music. No one dared do soeven privately in his
home. Those engaged in musical provision for theirearnings,
got together to discuss what to do. They decided to take out
aprocession on the streets of Delhi in protest.
So one day they staged a grand procession taking out a big
JANAZA (coffin)and marched on the streets of the capital. They
passed in front of the king'spalace. They raised their voice as
well as the JANAZA to make their amusingprotest march conspicuous before the king who was then sitting on the front
terrace.
The king became curious and wanted to know which eminent
personality haddied as to be given such a grand funeral. Some
leaders from the procession approached the king and in a
lamenting and wailing tone told him that the coffin was in fact
that of 'Music'. Since it was strictly banned in the country,they
were suffering loss of daily income. On hearing this, the king
smiled andsaid:
“Very good! Dig the grave so deep as to ensure that the dead
MUSIC doesnot rise again for hundreds of years to come.
”Let us ponder over the reasons why Islam has forbidden the
playing, hearingand even the handling of musical instruments.

21

The Islamic philosoply of life dictates that this worldly life is
transtional and aquick passing one, whereas the life hereafter
is eternal and more important.Therefore Islam has forbidden
those things which distract our attention fromthis fact and
which lead us towards loose character and overlooking of
themoral duties of our life.
A number of these forbidden things in Islam are not only
morally but physicallyand mentally harmful as proved by a
number of modern scientists.
Professor Horst Hecheck of Vienna reports:
“The disharmonies of modern music freguently cause severe
psychologicaland physical damage to musicians. Doctors and
music experts say complaintsrange from nervousness, depression and headaches to ulcers and impotence”
The toxic effect of the musical sound cannot be denied. Some
years before, itwas reported in a local newspaper in Daressalaam that a pregnant Hinduwoman was much mentally engrossed in listening to a moving musicalprogram in a cinema
that she delivered a baby on the spot without realizingwhat
was happening. The newspaper in criticizing the incident, remarkedwhether the place was a cinema hall or maternity
home!
A professor of Columbia University in America, Dr. Adler,
writes that a bestmelodious record of music can badly harm a
human body nerves and the warmer the weather, more the
harm. He also proved that music does upsetthe human nerves
unnaturally causing considerable fatigue. The shaking effect of
music also causes unnatural perspiration.
This research of Dr. Adler on music had such a widespread
effect on theAmerican people that many were led to stop listening to music. The belief that music was harmful for progressive
nation reached a stage when a resolutionto ban it by law was
presented with relevent proofs and arguments in the American
senate. But in a nation where luxury and lust is wide spread
how many could be expected to vote for such a ban?

22

It may be claimed that music has a soothing-effect and as
such it is a good entertainment, but taking into consideration
that it causes more harm thangood, it becomes undesirable
and one should abstain from it. Islam, as such,has forbidden
music as we can see from the following Quranic Ayat and the
traditions of the Holy Prophet (S.A.W.)
“But avoid the uncleanliness of the idols and avoid vain
(false) words” (22:30)
According to the interpretations of all the major sects of
Islam the abovementioned vain (false) words include false utterance and music. It is worth noting that the divine instruction
to avoid vain words (music) is in conjuctionwith the instruction
to avoid the uncleanliness (pollution) of idol. Thus thecondemnation of music is along with that of idol-worship.
The Prophet of Islam had said:“Two kinds of voices are resented by Allah: the wailing at the time of acalamity and musical rhythm at the time of rejoicing.” (Nafahat Risaliyya)

23

Chapter

8

DO STARS INFLUENCE OUR DESTINY?
Once Imam Ali bin Abi Talib (A.S.) was leaving Kufa — (the
then capital of hiscaliphate in Arabia) — to go to a place called
Nahrawan in order to quash therebellion of the Kharijites. One
of his companions by the name Aleef told himnot to undertake
the journey just then. Why? Because according to thefindings
of astrology, it was not an auspicious moment, and this journey
wouldnot end into victory. Ali bin Abi Talib (A.S.) replied in
these words:(Nahjul Balagah sermon 79)
“Do you think you can tell the hour when a man goes out and
no evil befallhim or can warn of the time at which if one goes
out harm will accrue?Whoever testifies to this falsifies the
Qur'an and becomes unmindful of Allahin achieving his desired
objective and in warding off the undesirable. Youcherish saying
this so that he who acts on what you say should praise you
rather than Allah because according to your misconception you
have guidedhim about the hour in which he would secure benefit and avoid harm.
”After replying to Aleef, Ali bin Abi Talib (A.S.) turned towards those who hadgathered there and said:
People! Beware of learning the science of stars except that
with which guidance is sought on land or sea, because it leads
to divining and an astrologer is a diviner, while the diviner is
like the sorcerer, the sorcerer is likethe unbeliever and the unbeliever would be in Hell. Get forward in the name ofAllah.”

24

Contrary to the astrologer's advice, Ali bin Abi Talib proceeded at the samemoment to Nahrawan and returned victorious from that war.
Millions of people in the world have the tendency of consulting horoscopes inorder to seek informatian about the future
trends of their lives which theybelieve to be under the influence of the movement of stars and planets.
In our African Society, we have a section of people who frequently consult theso called MWALIMUS or WITCH DOCTORS
to seek the secrets of their sufferings and to find out the future
outcome of their ills. These people sufferfrom superstitions,
psycholgical fears or imaginary sicknesses. The MWALIMUS
OR WITCHDOCTORS who consider themselves to be theexperts on prediction based on the movement of stars, have some
setimaginary answers and cures to offer and in so doing they
go on minting money from the ignorant people.
How strange it is to suppose that our business, adventures,
our health, our lifeand death are predetermined by the position
of the stars and planets and areunder the influence of their
movement? What is overlooked is the fundamentalfact that
both man and the heavenly bodies - the stars - the sun - the
moonetc., are under the indisputable authority of the Creator
Allah. Man's destingpresent and future well-being is all controlled by Him and Him alone. It is oneof those human weakness of enslaved mentality which tend to bow down to abody
created like himself rather than recognize and have faith in the
full andsupreme authority of the Creator Allah.
But why is it that so many people, including the educated
and intelligent, arewilling to place their faith on what the astrologers have to say?
The answer is, that day by day, tremendous vacuum is occuring in the lives ofmany who previously truly believed in God.
Worldly pleasure and occupation shave so much overtaken
their minds that they can hardly pause to think andrecognize
the true aim of life and the Supreme Powers of the LIFE —

25

GIVER.As such, they become desperate and inorder to find
some sort of peace forthe disturbed mind, they doing to anything that may possibly give them somesort of consolation. Humanbeings, by nature, must have something in whichto believe, and in the absence of a meaningful faith in God, reliance
is placeon superstition, occultation, magic, witchcraft, etc.
Astrology does not demand its followers to go to church or
mosque norperform rituals nor adhere to any moral commandments. All one has to do isto buy newspapers or books and follow up what is published about thehoroscopes. Or at times. approach an astrologer or a Mwalimu, pay his feesof a few shillings and seek information about the future.
During the times of Imam Jaffer Al Sadiq (A.S.), discussion
and debates onvarious sciences in the world (and particularly
in Arabia) were at their peak.People of different beliefs and religions used to attend discourses by theImam. One of those sciences dwelt upon was astrology and the Imamexpressly asked
the people not to believe in it. Abdul Malik bin Aayun was
counted among one of the great traditionalists as well as scholars in Islam. Hewas also an expert in astrology; and had strong
faith in the effect of thepositions and movements of the stars
on daily lives of human beings. He had accumulated a number
of books on this subject and was always referring to them. Before taking any decision or starting any work, he would
makeastrological calculations to find out what guidance and
trend he could get from the position of the stars.
Gradually it became his habit; and not even a small piece of
work could be done without prior astrotogical calculations. Day
by day he became more andmore mentally engrossed in basing
all his actions on the good or bad omen ofthe stars. He became
jealous of the people who accomplished their daily workby having confidence in God and who never worried about the positions of stars.
Once he explained his trouble to Imam Jaffer Al Sadiq (A.S.)
who expressedhis surprise that Abdul Malik had this undesirable habit and told him:“I command you to go and set fire to all
those books”

26

He went and did as he was told. Thus he released himself
from the burden ofmythical and imaginery influence of stars,
and then he felt at ease and quite relaxed in doing all his works
by relying on God.
Hasheena state that he approached Imam Jaffer Al Sadiq
(A.S.) and said tohim that there lived a man on their Island,
who could reveal to them unknownmatters, for example where
and with whom stolen goods are lying. The Imam responded by
saying:“The Holy Prophet (S.A. W.) has said that one who goes
to ask about anything from magician, soothsayer or a liar and
believes in what he sayscertainly becomes an infidel (unbeliever) and denier of all the heavenlyscriptures revealed by Allah”
The fact is that an astrologer, soothsayer magician or any
type of fortune -teller poses as a divine person, who thinks that
he can forecast one's benefitor harm through the art of astrology thus, instead of praying to Almighty Allah for warding off
calamities and misfortunes, or offering thanks to Allah forbounties HE has bestowed, he becomes indifferent and self confident in everymatter. Should he by chance prove successful in
some of his forecasts, hewould expect to be praised and be depended upon by more and more people.This leads to atheism
and is against the spirit of the teachings of the HolyQura'n in
which the Almighty Allah says:
Say: No one in the heavens and the earth knows the unseen
but Allah; andthey do not know when they shall be raised.”
(27:65)
Thus to approach fortune-tellers, palmists, astrologers and
such others who claim to have power to peep into future and to
know of hidden matters is to display lack of true faith in the
Will of Allah, It is against the teachings of Islamand leads to
infidelity.

27

Chapter

9

THE TRAGIC END OF AN OPPRESSIVE
KING
Nadir Shah was King of Persia, a famous conqueror around
early eighteenthcentury. He conquered India and with little
resistance reached Delhi during1739. Irritated and angered by
some commotion by the inhabitants, he causedgeneral massacre and set fire to houses in Delhi. Thousands of people
werekilled.
During the last night of his fife, Nadir Shah was seeing terrible nightmares and had lost mental peace and sleep. He
would get out of his bed now and again,returning to it to get
some comfort and sleep but to no avail. It was terrible torture
for the Shah but no one dared to approach him to find the reason. Only one person could dare to do so and he was Husainali
Muinul Mulk, a trusted friend of the Shah. He approached him
and asked the reasons for his restlessness and lack of sleep.
The Shah said that it was a deep personal secret which he
would reveal to him on condition that he did not tell anyoneotherwise the punishment would be by death.
Nadir Shah then related his secret saying that before he
came on the throneof Iran, he had seen a sensational dream.
He had seen two prominent andgilttering personalities come to
him and with much honour, they took him to aplace. There ten
more glittering personalities were seated with much dignity
and awe. The Shah was then ushered before one of them and a
dazzlingsword was respectfully tied around his waist. Thereafter one high personagesaid to him, “You are being

28

designated for the up liftment and welfare of Iranprovided
people are treated well.”
Since then, the Shah added he had made progress in every
sphere in his life.Not only had he succeeded in sitting on the
throne of Iran but he alsoextended domains. Having attacked
at the cost of thousands killed, India alsofell and came under
his rule.
Revealing his secret further to Husainali, Nadir Shah went
on to say that nighthe saw a very frightening dream when he
went to sleep. He saw the same twoprominent and glittering
personalities again but this time it appeared as if they were not
in good mood as in the previous dream. He saw he was being
dragged and made to appear before the same high personages
in whose presence he was previously honoured with the gift of
a dazzling sword and good news about his future. This time in
harsh tone he was asked if such wasthe way of treating the
Muslim masses? The Shah added that “I was asked tosurrender
the sword which was removed from my waist. Then with my
handstied around my neck, I was dragged from one place to
another. This dream has terribly upset me and I am unable to
sleep tonight,”he concluded.
Alas the kingly life of Nadir Shah was destined to meet its
tragic end as aresult of his massacres and crimes. He passed
that night restlessly and as the morning set in, he was killed by
his enemies. He departed from this worldneither with head
over his body nor with the kingly crown over his head.
The fact is that Nadir Shah had misused the good omen he
first received in adream. He thought he had become high and
mighty and could do whatever heliked. He had misunderstood,
as many of us today do, that the blessings of kingdom, wealth,
power or high status in life are signs of divine favour. Wordly
blessings to man are but temporary means of testing the
strength of faith andaction in obedience or disobedience of
God's commands.

29

Among the sins and crimes which attract severe punishment
in this life as wellas in the next is oppression of people.
and they who act unjustly shall know to what final place of
turning they shall turnback. (26:227)

30

Chapter

10

IN WILLING SUBMISSION TO THE WILL OF
ALLAH
Abu Talha was one of the respected companions of Prophet
Muhammad(S.A.W.) His wife Umme Salim was a woman of
strong faith in Allah. They hada young son who was very dear
to them. In particular the father was deeplyattached to him.
His name was Salim.
Once young Salim became so seriously ill that his mother lost
hope of his survival. One day she sensed the end was imminent. Lest the dear fatherbecame too much upset on seeing the
son die, she requested Abu Talha to goto the Prophet. After he
had left the house, Salim breathed his last. UmmeSalim immediately shrouded the dead body in a piece of cloth and placed
itinside a room.
Thereafter she went and cooked food for her husband. She
adorned herselfwith perfume and sat waiting for him to return.
When Abu Talha returned heinquired about the health of his
dear son. Umme Salim replied that he wasasleep and it was
better not to disturb him. Both sat down and ate their
meal.And then lied down for a short rest. After "a while, Umme
Salim woke upsaying she wanted to ask him a question:“
Supposing someone entrusted us with a thing for some time
and after come sand takes it back from us. Would you be unhappy with him?”
“Certainly not” replied Abu Talha. “A thing on trust to us
must be returned tothe owner.”

31

Then Umme Salim decided to reveal what had happened to
their son. She said, “Salim who was on trust to us has departed
from this world. Allah the All Merciful, has decided to take him
back from us.” So moved was Abu Talha to hear this said in
this way that he exclaimed, “By Allah you are the mother of the
son and as such more deserving to be consoled for this patience than I.”
Abu Talha then rose up for ablution and recited two raka't
prayers for the departed soul. There after he went to the
Prophet and related the unusual patience displayed by his wife
over the death of their dear son. The Prophet was very glad
and thanked Allah saying that his Ummat - his people were like
those of Bani Israei. That is there were such people of for bearance and staunch faith as were to be found among the people
of Bani Israel.
The fact is that the death of a dear son should have caused
the mother Umme Salim much grief. Instead she exercised a
lot of self-control and patience soas to console her husband. It
shows how deeply faithful and resigned to the will of Allah she
was. What a splendid example of the power of faith which the
Prophet of Islam had described in these words:
“A person of Iman (faith) in his religion is stronger than a
mighty mountain.That is so because a mountain can be carved
out whereas one cannot cutback any part of the faith of a believer since he holds it firmly with deepattachment."

32

Chapter

11

THE CHOSEN FIVE DIGNITARIES OF
ISLAM. A MIRACULOUS DISCOVERY OF
SIXTY YEARS AGO.
It was in the year 1916 when the First World War was raging. A British Military patrol party was passing near a village
named Ontra, a few miles fromJerusalem in Palestine. Suddenly the military party observed a strange light inthe darkness of the night. It was coming from a very old small hillock.
The officer-in-charge ordered digging it. After digging twelve
feet deep, they cameacross a silverplate about two feet long
and one and half feet wide. When the plate was taken out, its
light disappered. The party took the plate to their Commander
Major A.N. Grandell who scrutinised the plate in torch light
andwas wonder struck.
The border of the plate was inset with precious stones and in
the centre of theplate, something was written in gold in some
unknown language. Major Grandell sent the plate to the Commander of the Armies Lieutt. General D.O.Gladstone. He in
turn sent it to the British Archeological Department.
At the end of the war in 1919, research began into this
unique plate. A committee of experts of ancient languages consisting of British, French,American and others was appointed.
After many months of strenuous research, it was found that the
inscriptions on the plate were in old Hebrew language used in
the Old Testament (of the Bible.) On 31st January, 1920 the following translation was submitted:
In Hebrew Language.

33

Yah
Yah
Yah
Yah
Yah

Ahmad Maqza
Eli Ansatah
Bahtool Akashi
Hasan Azofata
Hasin ba RafoEli, Eli, Eli,

English Translation.
Reach O' Ahmad
0' Ali, help me
0' Batool, keep an eye
0' Hasan, Be Kind
0' Husain, grant us happiness
Ali - Ali – Ali
After the translation by experts, it was decided that the silver
plate should bekept in the archives of British Imperial Museum
for display. But when the Lord Bishop of England came to
know of it, he sent a directive on 1st March, 1923,that the
keeping of this plate in the museum or any other public place
would work against Christianity. The plate therefore must be
kept in Secret Church Chambers. Thus it was kept and it is still
there in the same place.
The above mentioned discovery has been, quoted from “The
Wonderful Stories of Islam” by Col. P. C. Implay, London, page
249, by the Ahmed Hussein Shah, Advocate, in his book 'The
Straight Path'.
The Holy Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W) had said that the first
thing to becreated by God before any creation was his LIGHT
(NOOR). And that LIGHTthen split to create AHLUL-BAIT, the
household members of the Prophet.They are known as the Holy
PANJETAN, the household members of theProphet. They are
the chosen and top most five dignitaries of Islam. They are:
1. Prophet Muhammad (S.A.W.) (also called Ahmad)
2. Imam Ali (A.S.) (also called Haider) the soul of the Prophet
and hisson-in-law.

34

3. Bibi Fatima (A.S.) (also called Batool) the only beloved
daughter ofThe Prophet.
4. Imam Hasan (A.S.) (also known as Shabbar) the son of Ali
and Fatima.
5. Imam Husain (A.S.) (also known as Shabbir) the son of Ali
and Fatima.
Their greatness lies not only in being closely related to the
Prophet, being partand parcel of the FIRST CREATED LIGHT
of the Prophet, but also in theirsupreme sacrifices for the
cause of Islam.
God Almighty had chosen them as the of supreme personalities of Islam andinformed all the previous Prophets in advance
of their eminently high positionand their sacrifices in the cause
of Islam. The previous Prophets always feltawed, by the names
of PANJETAN. Whenever they became surrounded byany misfortune, they prayed for God's deliverance with the help of the
holynames of these five dignitaries.
The silver plate inscribed with the holy names of PANJETAN the holy fivedignitaries of Islam as related above, might have
originated from one of thepast Prophets and used for invoking
Allah's mercy and blessing.
These five personalities are those whom Allah has exclusively
kept away fromall spiritual and physical impurity for ever.
They are those who have beeninfallible and sinless from birth
to death Ali, Fatima, Hassan and Husain (A.S.)are those whom
the Prophet of Islam had identified exclusively as members of
his House and that they are with the Qur'an and the Qur'an
with them. They and the Qur'an are the supreme authority in
Islam after the Prophet.Whosoever adheres to both the Qur'an
and the People of the House will be saved from going astray
from the straight and true path of Islam.
Ibn Abbas relates the apostle of Allah Said:“Ali and Fatima
and Hassan and Husain are my household members

35

tillthe dooms day (qiyamat)”When asked 'which are the
two luminaries?' the Prophet said:“Hassan and Husain
and their father (Ali) is the light of the world andtheir
mother (Fatima) is the full moon for dark nights”Abu
Huraira said: that the Apostle of Allah looked at Ali and Fatima
and Hassan and Husain and said:“I am at war with him who
wages war with you and am at peace with him who is at peace
with you.”

36

Chapter

12

ALLAH IS THE GUIDE FOR EVERY
CREATURE
Hamid had an inquisitive mind and was fond of learning all
about wild life, howthey lived and behaved. He used to obtain
different books on animals andkeenly study them. This hobby
induced him to go out to the woods in order toobserve animals
in their natural surroundings.
One day he accompanied his friend Abdul, Professor of Zoology
and experton animal life, to a nearby lake. They strolled on the
shore and came over tosee storks, with their long legs, calmly
standing in the water to snap uppassing fish with their long
beaks. Storks thrive on fish. One of them forlonelystood aside,
looking rather sick and unable to fly.
Both Hamid and Abdul became curious to know what was
wrong with thatbird. As they went nearer, the bird tried to flee,
but could not do so. It had abroken leg. Lovingly they caught
hold of the bird and examined its leg. They were amazed to see
that its injured leg had a plaster of dry mud over it. Onremoving it they found the leg rather swollen. The bone was either
fractured or broken.
Hamid was amazed to see this phenomenon and wanted to
know more aboutit. Surely, someone had shown mercy to the
bird and had tried to help.“Is there a doctor around here who
attends to sick or injured animals?” heasked.
“No” replied Abdul. He added, “Before doctors could discover
the benefit of plaster, this bird was already aware of it. It knew
instinctively how to make useof mud to hold fractured or
broken bone in place.” The treatment of brokenand fractured
bones with lime plaster is well known in medical circles as
Plaster of Paris.

37

Professor Henry Mondoor - a well known Zoologist Writes in
one of his bookson animal life that animals have amazing ways
of curing their sicknesses. It is from observing such animals
that medical experts have made discoveries about curing certain maladies.
It is mentioned that when a cat catches cold or suffers from
headache, itimmediately tries to find a particular herb which
when eaten promptly cures this sickness. If it is not available
the cat lies down in one corner to take complete rest. Alternatively it finds a warm place to lie down and thus feels better and
is then able to move about normally.
No wonder if it is from this experience that doctors today advise patientssuffering from cold to rest at home for some days.
One of the animals in the forest is a fox. it is cunning and has
many enemies.It has to contend with snakes in the forest.
When bitten by a snake, the foximmediately looks for a particular herb which it applies to the bitten part of itsbody. That herb
makes in ineffective the poison from the snake-bite.
A deer in the forest normally lives in the area where water is
easily available.This animal by nature swings and runs from
place to place. In so doing, itsometimes develops excessive
acidity which causes it to suffer fromrheumatic pain. When this
happens, the deer is seen to go and stand for quitea time in a
particular furrow of mineral water. Today Sulphur bath or mineralwater is considered a natural cure for rheumatic pains
even among humanbeings.
Now let us ask ourselves:Who inspires a stork to use mud
plaster for its fractured leg?Who guides acat to find a particular herb to cure its cold? Who shows a fox how to removepoison from snakebite?
On deep reflection, we shall have to admit that it is no one else
but the creator Allah who inspires them how to remedy their
ills. It is HE who inspires theways of acquiring sustenance and
meet the challenges of survival in thisworld. On this the holy
Quran says:
He said: Our Lord is He Who gave to everything its creation,
then guided it(to its goal).” (20:50)
However, it must be remembered that it is not good to hurt
animals deliberately. Islam teaches universal charity even towards animals.

38

Chapter

13

THE VALUE OF SINCERITY OF PURPOSE.
A story is told of a man who approached three workers who
were doing thesame job. “What are you doing?” he asked each
one of them separately andgot different answers.
“I am cutting the stones” replied the first.
“I am earning my livehood” replied the second.
“I am building a mosque” replied the third.
Each of the three workers saw himself linked to a different
purpose each, onewas to that extent, different from others, although all worked alike and wereengaged in the same task.
Our two hands with which we work are in no sense different
from the hands ofany other person. The value of what we do
depends upon the quality of the inner purpose in our heart
with which we do our work. A true Muslim works to earn God's
pleasure.
In the words of Imam Khomeini (ra), the ultimate criterian in
evaluating men'sdeeds is the intent and the purpose of the
doer rather than the external shapeof people's acts. Sincerity
of purpose and God-fearing motivation behind a Muslim's
deeds were the principle feature which distinguished his deeds
from those of non-believers.
Islamic history provides glaring examples of how Muslims in
minority ultimately triumphed over their enemies in much
greater number and better equipped because of their faith and
sincerity of their purpose… ..

39

Islam has emphasized the purity of intent before every act of
virtue. Hence ofthe conditions provided for IBADAT (acts of
worship) the most important andthe primary one is IKHLAS
(sincerity of purpose). Not only one draws fartherfrom Allah
but he is discarded from divine blessings in acts where purity
ofintent is lacking. The following ayats in the Holy Quran
provide a goodguidance on the subject:
"Say: I am commanded that I should serve Allah, being sincere to Him inobedience.” (39:11)
“And call on Him being sincere to Him in obedience". (7:29)
What do we really mean by IKHLAS - the purity of purpose?
When oneembarks upon worship of Allah or does any act of virtue, he is required todiscard all wordly thoughts from his mind
and cast his full concentrationtowards Allah. He is expected to
feel dependent on none but Allah for all hiswordly needs and
put his trust in Him as the primary source of all blessing sand
reward. He is desired to throw his full weight in praying for all
his lawful needs from Him. His sole aim for every act of virtue
should be to seek notworldly gains but the pleasure of Allah.
What is the effect and outcome of IKHLAS - the purity of purpose? Numerous instances can be quoted of the lasting effect
and fruitful outcome of actionsand work done with absolute
purity of purpose - for the pleasure of Allah andHim alone. The
following story should serve a good example.
It is related that when Prophet Adam landed on this earth
from Heaven, allkinds of creatures came forward to pay their
respects and welcome him onearth. To each one of them, Adam
gave his blessings according to itsqualification.
When a flock of gazelles came forward to pay their respects,
he gave hisblessings and patted them by passing his holy hand
over their backs. Thelasting effect of this was the growth of
navel-bag of musk (a black substancewell known for producing
a good perfume). When they returned home,another flock of
gazelle on seeing the gift of musk asked them where they

40

hadgot it from. They explained that Prophet Adam had patted
them and passedhis holy hand over their backs, in appreciation
of their visit to him. The result was the growth of the navel-bag
of musk.
This second flock of gazelle thought they too should get the
gift. With this aim,they went and offered their salams and respects before Adam. The Prophet acknowledged and passed his
hand over their backs also. But this time it showed no effect of
producing the navel-bag of musk. They were naturally
disappointed.
On their return home, they inquired the reason for this and
were told that itwas because of lack of purity of intent and purpose. Their visit to Prophet Adam was for specific aim of reward of the naval-bag of musk whereas thefirst flock had paid
the visit solely for the pleasure of Allah without any thoughtfor
reward.
Today the musk producing creatures are the progeny of that
very first flock of gazelles.

41

Chapter

14

LOVE FOR ALLAH AND FOR HIS SAKE
ONLY.
Muslims should begin giving Islamic education to their children from their verytender age.Ali (A.S.) delighted in company
of his children. Once he was sitting in hishouse with his two
young children, Abbas, his son, and Zainab, his daughter.
Ali (A.S.) said to Abbas, “Say 'WAHED'” (meaning 'ONE' inArabic). The boy uttered “WAHED”. Ali (A.S.) then asked him
to say “ISNAIN” (Two). Abbasreplied, “I feel ashamed to utter
'two' from the same tongue which just said'ONE'.”
Ali (A.S.) hugged his son, pleased at such a charming expression.Such a reply from Abbas indicated how deeply devoted he
was in his belief inTawheed - Oneness of God. That true and
staunch believer in one God neverlikes to even imagine any association with One God.
Zainab then asked, “Dear father, do you love me?”, he said,
“Yes, of course,my children are like part of my heart”. On hearing this, she said, “You alsolove God. How can two loves be accomodated in one heart of a true believer,the love of Allah and
that of children?” Ali (A.S.) smiled and replied, “Love Godand
for the sake of His love, you love His creatures - children and
fellowbeings too. I love you for the sake of Allah.
Such deep thinking and words of true Tawheed on Zainab's
part, pleased herfather and he gave her much praise and
affection.

42

Prophet Muhammad (S.A.W.) once saw a young boy. He was
gazing at theProphet in such a way as his eyes and face indicated deep love andreverence. This attracted the Prophet who
went and stood near him. He asked him, “My son, tell me, do
you love me?”.The boy replied, “Yes, Oh the messenger of Allah, by Allah I do love youindeed”
Prophet: “Do you love me to the extent of your two eyes?”
Boy: “I do so more than my two eyes”
Prophet: “Do you love your father more than myself?”
Boy: “Oh Prophet, my love for you is more than that for my
father.”
Prophet: “Do you love me to the extent you do your mother?”
Boy: “I love you more than even my mother”
Prophet: “Let me see, do you love me to the extent of your
own life?”
Boy: “Oh Prophet! Allah witness that I love you, even more
than my ownlife”
The Prophet was deeply moved at this reply and expressed
his affection forhim. Then he asked:“Tell me, do you love me to
the extent you do Allah?”At this juncture, the boy smiled and
said “ALLAH - ALLAH - ALLAH”. That Allah is loved more than
anybody else. Neither you Prophet nor anybody canbe loved
more than Allah. Even if the Prophet is loved more than others;
It is FOR THE SAKE OF ALLAH.
So moving were the words of the boy that everyone hearing
this was much impressed. The Prophet turned to his companions and said, “You must be likethis boy. Love Allah for all his
blessings bestowed upon you. And love me forHIS sake and
obey me.”
The Holy Qura'n describing those in love of Allah says:
“And those who believe are stronger in love for Allah ".
(2:165)

43

Chapter

15

CONSEQUENCES OF INGRATITUDE
TOWARDS ALLAH'S BOUNTIES.
Allah is Rahman, the compassionate and looks after the welfare of all thecreatures in the world. People should all the time
thank Him for His kindness.
In the past there existed a thriving town at some place in the
Middle East onthe bank of a river known as Baliyan. These
people were blessed with Allah's bounties and were extremely
wealthy. It was the time of ignorance and peoplelived according to their whims. Ignorance is a disease and coupled with
wealth, it may corrupt the mind and morals. Drunk with affluence these people had lost their common sense and resorted to
very lowly and filthy habits. Food was so abundant that they
lost all respect for it and they used bread assponge to clean
things.
Almighty Allah, sent to them Propnet Daniel inorder to
preach and guide themon the right path. But so deeply arrogant and intoxicated they had becomewith their wealth, and so
busy they were in extravagant enjoyment of theirriches that
they would not listen to him. Prophet Daniel explained and
warnedthem not to treat God's bounties with ingratitude lest
they be punished with His wrath and suffer shortages of food
and absence of rains. In response theyjeered at him and argued that they had enormous surplus grains and foodswhich
often was left to rot in the fields.
So gross was their negligence and ingratitude towards God's
bounties thateven a poor man had no respect for a loaf of

44

bread. Once when a beggarcame to Prophet Daniel to beg for
food he gave him a piece of bread. Hethrew it away in total disrespect saying that it was useless as their king usedto clean
the lowly parts of the body with it.
Prophet Daniel became extremely frustrated and angry. He
prayed to Allah forHis wrath and punishment to overtake these
people. Consequently divine wrath descended on them. Rains
stopped and not a drop of water fell forseven years. All their
rivers and springs dried up. so extremely short of foodand water they became that they started eating the very unclean and
stinking pieces of loaves they had thrown away. They would
scramble over a dead animal, they had lost all the pleasure and
peace of mind.Such were the harsh consequences of their misdeeds and ingratitude.
Shortage of food had become so acute that once two women
went to ProphetDaniel to resolve their mutual dispute. They
mentioned that they had earlierdecided that each would
slaughter her child in turn and they would eat itsflesh. One of
them had already done so but the other woman was now tryingto find an excuse to back out from her pledge and refused
to slaughter herchild.
On hearing this story, Prophet Daniel wept at the turn of
events and thepathetic situation of those people. Prophet
Daniel deeply moved by thispathetic situation raised his hands
in the supplication to Allah and prayed forthe resumption of
rains and His blessings so that those people may be freedfrom
want and hunger. The wayward people had got chastisement.
The lessons we derive from the above story are:
1. When people of a place are blessed with extreme wealth
andprosperity they tend to feel independent of Allah and turn
their back inrebellion against His commands. They display ingratitude against Hisblessings by misusing them and indulge in
extravagant spending inunlawful enjoyments.
2. As a result of the people's ungrateful and rebellious attitude, theyattract divine punishment in the form of wrath such

45

as lack of rain,oppression by unjust rulers, natural calamity
and disaster, and absenceof mental peace and security.
The holy Quran has drawn our attention on the subject in the
following ayat:
“And Allah sets forth a parable: (Consider) a town safe and
secure to which itsmeans of subsistence come in abundance
from every quarter; but it becameungrateful to Allah's favors,
therefore Allah made it to taste the utmost degreeof hunger
and fear because of what they wrought.” (16:112)

46

Chapter

16

FOOD FROM THE HOUSE OF ALI (AS)
Uhud is a wellknown place a few miles outside Medina. One of
the hardestbattles of Islam was fought at this place. It was in
defence of Islam against the enemies - the non-believers who
had come from far away places.
In this battle the Muslim fighters had set noble examples of
self-sacrifice.Many of them were martyred having fought
bravely against the enemies.Among them seven were fatally
wounded and were breathing their last. All of them were also
suffering from the pangs of thirst.
Someone came to them with a cup of water hardly sufficient to
quench thethirst of one man. On offering the water to one of
them, the water-bearer wasdirected towards another injured
fighter lying besides him. This second fighter sent him to the
third one near him, this third directed him to the fourth, and
soit went on till he reached the seventh warrior. When the seventh fighter was approached, he told him that since the first
fighter was very thirsty, he shouldbe given the water first.
The water-bearer then returned to the first injured fighter fend
found himalready dead. He then went to the second thence to
the third, finding eachalready dead. This happened also with
the remaining fighters, all having diedby the time he reached.
All of them departed from this world thirsty leaving behind in
history a golden example of Islamic brotherhood and self-secrificefor others.
Islam has laid much stress on the importance of mutual help,
co-operationand sacrifice among Muslims. The Holy Quran dictates:
The believers are but brethren, therefore make peace between
your brethrenand be careful of (your duty to) Allah that mercy
may be had on you.” (49:10)The Holy Prophet had said:

47

"One who starts his day without care for the affairs of Muslims
is not a Muslim And Hazrat Ali (A.S) had said:
"Helping fellow Muslim brothers increases one's sustenance. "
A non-believer had just embraced Islam at the hands of the
Holy Prophet. Hecomplained of hunger and the Prophet sent
someone to bring food from hishouse. But unfortunately none
was then available. The Prophet then asked hiscompanions,
“Who can host this newly converted Muslim brother tonight?
”Hazrat Ali (A.S.) came forward and offered to do so. Holding
the new convert'shand, he took him to his house.He asked
Hazrat Fatima if any food wasavailable. She replied: “Only a
little provision, enough for the children”. Hazrat Ali (A.S.) in
response said “The guest must come first before ourselves andthe children”
Hazrat Fatima (A.S.) persuaded the children to sleep hungry
that night.And Hazrat Ali (A.S.) reduced the light of the lantern. He then invited the guest tothe meal in the semidarkened room. He sat with him pretending as if he wasalso
eating but in fact he did not eat lest the guest went hungry.
Hazrat Ali - Fatima and their children fed the guest for the
pleasure of Allahwhile remaining hungry themselves. This selfsacrifice was so muchappreciated by Allah that the following
ayat in the Holy Quran was revealed intheir praise:
“And those who made their abode in the city and in the faith
before them lovethose who have fled to them, and do not find
in their hearts a need of whatthey are given, and prefer (them)
before themselves though poverty mayafflict them, and whoever is preserved from the niggardliness of his soul,these it is
that are the successful ones.” (59:9)

48

Chapter

17

A SPLENDID EXAMPLE OF STAUNCH
FAITH
Abu Baseer was one of the faithful companions of Imam Jaffer Sadiq (A.S.) herelates that once sitting with the Imam, a
woman came in to ask a question :“I am suffering from a disease. Doctors in Iraq have prescribed alcohol as theremedy. Do
you, Oh Imam, permit me to drink alcohol?”
The Imam in reply asked her:
“According to what you say, doctors have prescribed alcohol
as medicine foryour sickness, why then don't you drink?”
The woman responded by saying:
“I am your follower, if you permit me to take alcohol, I shall
do so. If not, I shallnot. Because if tomorrow on Day of Judgement I am asked by Allah, I shallsay I did so with the permission of my Imam.” Imam Jaffer Sadiq'(A.S.) onhearing this
turned to Abu Baseer and said:“Do you hear what this woman
has to say?”
In other words, do you not wonder and appreciate the
staunch faith of thiswoman? Despite her illness, she does not
follow the doctor's order to takealcohol but seeks our permission first.
Thereafter the Imam said:
“By the name of Allah, I do not permit you to drink even a
drop of that becauseit is Haram. And should you drink, you will
repent at that moment when yoursoul reaches here.” So

49

saying, the Imam pointed to his throat. And three timeshe
asked: “Do you understand what I say?” And the woman said
“Yes”.
Despite the fact that alcohol was prescribed as a treatment
of her illness the woman refused to touch it lest she broke the
Shariat of Islam and sought thepermission of the Imam - the
rightful representative of Allah on earth.
Alcohol drinking ultimately brings regret at time of death.
One used to drinkingsuffers extreme agony at time of.death.
The soul does not depart easily fromthe body. True faith with
good action is the primary requisite of a Muslim. Faithis the
seed and good deeds the offshoot.
"One who consumes intoxicants will meet the Lord at death
like a worshipperof idols."

50

Chapter

18

A VALIANT WOMAN OF FAITH
Zubeir was one of the close companions of the Prophet and
Asma, thedaughter of Abu-Bakr, was his wife.
After the tragedy of Kerbala, Abdallah the son of Zubeir was
in Mecca. Hemade an uprising against the Ommayyad Caliph
Abdul Malik bin Marwan andappointed his brother Musa'b as
governor of Basrah.
Abdul Malik replied by launching an attack on Basrah and
killed Musa'b.Thereafter he sent a large army under the command of Hujjaj Ibn Yusuf tofight against Abdallah bin Zubair.
Hujjaj surrounded Mecca and Abdalla with all the manpower
at his disposalcame out in defence against the Omayyad attack
from a raised stand. Hujjaj and his people attacked with stonethrowing on the city of Mecca, causingextensive damage.
When the situation became very grim, Hujjaj sent amessage to
Abdulla saying that he would soon be defeated hence it would
be better if he surrendered to save further bloodshed of
Muslims, and also tosave further damage to the holy city of
Mecca. He would guarantee that no harm would come to him
but that the caliph will decide his ultimate fate.
Abdulla responded by saying that he would think over that
night and convey his reply to him the following day.
Thereafter he went to his colleagues and friends for consultation. All of them said that it was better to go out of Mecca and
surrender to the Caliph. From there he went to his mother and

51

reported the whole matter. His mother 'ASMA'was a woman of
great courage and staunch faith. She asked:“Oh son! Was your
uprising against Bani Ummayya for the sake of worldly gains,
or for the sake of Islam?”
Abdallah replied: “By GOD, it is for Islam and the proof of it
is that I have notset my eyes over any worldly wealth nor have
I accumulated any money.
”Asma then told her son: “Therefore continue with the Jihad
and showforebearance against any affliction. Exercise patience
and display bravery likeHussein bin Ali, the leader of free and
valiant people of the world.”
Abdallah in reply said, “Oh my dear mother! I have also been
thinking the same but wished to sound your opinion. Now I
know that martyrdom isacceptable for me. But my only worry
is that they will chop me into pieces after my death.”
“Don't worry son! Like a sheep when slaughtered, flesh is cut
into pieces but it does not cause it any pain”, the mother said
unflinchingly.
Abdullah kissed his mother's hands, went inside his room and
spent that nightin prayers and recitation of Quran. When morning set in, he made GHUSL(ablution) said his morning prayer
and wearing his helmet, he went first to his mother to bid her
farewell. The mother without any emotion told him, “Son,fight
these corrupt and wicked steadfastly so that you qualify to
enter heaven”
Abdulla came out and he saw that his army had all deserted
him and runaway except a few of his own kith and kin. He
called them, “Oh free people!Let us proceed to the front and
fight”.
Thus Abdulla with his few colleagues launched an attack
against the enemylike a lion roaring in the jungle. It was the
only battle of its kind in the history ofArabia. After killing a
number of his enemies, he was hit by a stone on theforehead

52

and another one crushed his chest. Unable therefore to continue thefight, he fell down to be surrounded by his enemies who
chopped off his headinstantly. His companions also were killed
after a short fight.
When Hujjaj entered Mecca, he gave instructions that his
body be hanged atthe city gate and the severed head be sent to
the caliph in Syria. It is said thatwhen the news of the killing of
her son reached his mother, she did not cry norshed any tears
but only uttered these words:“If my son were not to display
such bravery he would not have been theson of Zubair!!!!”
Sometime had passed after this episode when Hujjaj once
asked what themother of Abdulla was doing? He was informed
of her above words andextreme forebearance over the killing
of her son. Hujjaj was astonished anddecided to shake her spirits and patience. He prepared some women topersuade her to
pay a visit to a place where the body of her son was
hanging.When she arrived at that place and saw the state of
her son's hanging body,she displayed no emotion whatsoever
and with the same calmness said:“Has not the time come for
this mounted person to come down thesaddle?”.
So saying she went away. When these words were conveyed
to Hujjaj, hegave instructions to remove the body of Abdullah
so that it could be buried.

53

Chapter

19

GREEDY EVEN IN OLD AGE
Haroon-AI-Rashid was one of the famous kings of Bani Abbas. He ruled from170 to 193 A.H. He was the one who had
poisoned and killed Imam MusaKazim(A.S.).
Once addressing his courtiers, he said that he was anxious to
meet a person who had personally seen the Prophet of Islam.
He wanted to know from himthe personal qualities of the last
Prophet.
One courtier said that he knew an old person who lived in Yemen and who claimed to have seen the Prophet personally.
Haroon ordered that every effort be made to bring that old
man to his court. A special litter was sent to Yemen.There the
old man who was already weak and reduced to a skeleton was
comfortably placed on it. Slowly he was carried on a long journey from his home till he safely arrived in Baghdad, the capital
of the king.
On entering his court, Haroon warmly welcomed and seated
him besides histhrone. He then asked him whether he had seen
the Prophet personally. The old man in his weak and lowly
voice replied:“Yes! I used to sit near the pulpit of the Prophet
and hear his ahadith(sayings)”Haroon asked him to describe
the main features and appearance of the Prophet. He said:“The
Prophet looked handsome and of sound physique. He had black
and curly hair. His face was luminescent. He was fond of perfume and made useof it liberally, so much so that the fragrance
would remain behind for quitesometime wherever he passed.”

54

Haroon then asked whether he remembered any saying of
the Prophet. The old man replied that he could still remember
one in which the Prophet hadsaid:“Man grows old but two
qualities in him still remain young: one is "greed" andthe
second great expectation”
Haroon was quite happy to meet the old man and hear what
he had to sayabout the Prophet. He then ordered that a handsome gift of money be presented to him. He also instructed
that he should be returned home ascomfortably as possible.
Thus the old man comfortably placed on his stretcher was
then on his wayback to his home in Yemen. Hardly had the litter reached a small distancefrom Baghdad when he suddenly
raised his weak voice. He asked to be sentback to Baghdad as
he had an important matter to discuss with the king.When he
was brought back to the court, Haroon was rather surprised
andasked him if he had forgotten something. The old man
replied:“Oh King! Tell me whether the gift of money you gave
me was only the firstand the last or whether I could come
every year to receive a similar gift fromyou?”
On hearing this Haroon laughed and said to him:“You had
rightly quoted the Prophet as saying that the two qualitites of
greedand long expectation remain young and active even in old
age.”
Haroon then promised the old man that he could expect repeated gifts yearlyas long as he lived. But alas! the greedy old
man was not destined to enjoyeven the first gift from the king.
Back on his litter as he was comfortably beingcarried, before
he could reach his hometown in Yemen, he died of greed butwithout enjoying his cherished gift of money from Haroon.
The fact is that man by nature is born with greed in his
character.
The HolyQuran says:
Verily man is created avaricious (Greedy)." (70:19)

55

Why is this instinct created in Man? The purpose is to make
him work hard toraise his standard of living. He should temper
his instinct with virtue by being considerate and generous and
strive to attain the ultimate pleasure of Allah and high status in
the life hereafter. The instinct of profit and possession is notmeant to make one selfish, to devote oneself to hoarding
wealth, and to satisfy one's desire for worldly gains. Therefore
this instinct needs to becontrolled and channelled into the
right direction- by being generous andcharitable.
Prophet Muhammad (S.A.W.) was once asked who the
wealthiest of all menwas. In reply he said:
"The wealthiest of all men is the one who is not enslaved with
greed".
And Hazrat Ali (A.S.) had said:
"The greedy is in the shackles of disgrace."and the fourth
Imam Zainul Abedeen (A..S.) in one of his prayers said:
"Oh Allah! I seek shelter from THEE from overriding desire
and greed forworldly things".

56

Chapter

20

ISLAMIC EQUALITY AND FAIRPLAY IN
PRACTICE
It was during the times when Hazrat Ali (A.S.) was the caliph
of the Muslim Ummah. One day accompanied by his slave Qamber, he went to the clothbazaar in Kufa. They stopped at one
shop, and Ali (A.S.) requested to seesome clothes. The shop
keeper recognized him and said “Oh Ameer-alMu'mineen!
(Master of the faithful) I have and can offer you what you
want.”
On noticing that he had already been recognized, Hazrat Ali
(A.S.) withdrewfrom that shop without any deal.
Both then proceeded and stopped at another shop run by a
young man. Fromhim Hazrat Ali (A.S.) purchased two clothes,
one costing three dirham and theother two. He gave the more
expensive one of three dirhams to Qamber andretained the
cheaper one of lower quality for himself. On seeing this, Qamberobjected saying that the better quality cloth would befit him
better since Ali(A.S.) was going on the pulpit to deliver Khutbas (sermons). To this Ali (A.S.)argued that the better grade
cloth should be worn by Qamber who wasyounger and was
more desirous of attractions. Besides, Ali (A.S.) added, thathe
had heard the Prophet recommending to them to clothe and
feed theirslaves the same way as they did for themselves.
From this story, three things are noteworthy:
1. That those in high posts in government should be careful
not to takeadvantage of their positions in matters of personal

57

interests. At ifHazrat Ali (A.S.) by withdrawing from that first
shopkeeper wanted toconvey to him that the one who desired
to purchase cloth was not theCaliph of the country but Ali bin
Abi Talib in his personal capacity. Theshopkeeper addressed
him as Amir-al-Mu'mineen hence he went awaywithout making
a deal.
2. The Islamic Shariah has prescribed special and equitable
rights forslaves who must receive consideration as human beings. HenceHazrat Ali (A.S.) was putting this teaching into
practice and setting aninvaluable example.
3. That Islam has given consideration within limits to the natural desire ofyounger people to make themselves attractive. In
giving better cloth toQambar, Hazrat Ali (A.S.) wanted to make
him feel happy.
Were men of high positions in public institutions today to
serve the interests ofthe people only without misusing their positions for personal gains, peoplewould enjoy better prosperity
and peace in the world.

58

Chapter

21

BIBLIOGRAPHY
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Nahjul Balagha
Mkatabe Islam
Sokhanane Muhammad (S.A.W.)
Waeze Khanewada
Mulla Qader Husain Madrasi
The Light7. Muwaddatul Qurba

Acknowledgment
Grateful thank to
M/s.Mohsin M.R. Alidina and Ahmed A.M. Jaffer for theirassistance and suggestions.

59

www.feedbooks.com
Food for the mind

60

